README.md, before:

# What is this?
Pruner is a universal test CLI that does the following:

- Runs your tests as soon as the code updates.
- Only runs the tests that are needed (the tests that run through the code you changed).
- Highlights code coverage with test status next to each line (see video below), so you know if you broke something, as you write it.
- Runs on your build server as well. Avoid wasting time waiting for your build server to run tests you already ran locally.
- Allows you to split tests in several chunks, useful for running tests in parallel across machines on a build server.

# Optional: Get the Visual Studio extension
- **Visual Studio Code:** https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Pruner.vscode
- **Visual Studio:** https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Pruner.vs

[![Watch a demo-video](/assets/Pruner.gif)](https://github.com/pruner/cli/blob/main/assets/Pruner.webm?raw=true)

# Getting started
First you need to install the CLI. This requires [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) installed.

`npm i @pruner/cli -g`

## Language & framework support
Pruner supports several languages and frameworks. Pick the instructions for the language you want to use, to get started.
### `dotnet` (C# .NET, VB .NET)
Instructions: https://github.com/pruner/cli/blob/main/docs/dotnet.md

### `mocha` (JavaScript)
Instructions: https://github.com/pruner/cli/blob/main/docs/mocha.md

### Looking for more providers?
File an issue or feel free to submit a pull request!

# Running tests
When you want to run your affected tests, use:

`pruner run`

## Watch mode
There's also a watch mode available, which will automatically run affected tests as you save files in your projects:

`pruner run --watch`

# Splitting tests
The syntax for splitting tests is `pruner split <total-chunks> <chunk-offset> <glob-pattern>`.

- `<total-chunks>` is the amount of total chunks you want to split your tests in.
- `<chunk-offset>` the zero-based chunk index to keep on disk.
- `<glob-pattern>` the glob-pattern for your tests.

## Example
Let's say you have the following files in your repository:
```
tests/BarTest.cs
tests/BuzTest.cs
tests/FooTest.cs
tests/FuzTest.cs
tests/Helpers.cs
tests/SomeOtherFile.cs
```

If you then run the command `pruner split 2 0 "**/*Test.cs"`, Pruner will split your tests in `2` chunks, and only keep chunk `0` (the first chunk) on the disk:

```
tests/BarTest.cs
tests/BuzTest.cs
tests/Helpers.cs
tests/SomeOtherFile.cs
```

If you instead run the command `pruner split 2 1 "**/*Test.cs"` Pruner will split your tests in `2` chunks, but instead keep chunk `1` (the second chunk) on the disk:
```
tests/FooTest.cs
tests/FuzTest.cs
tests/Helpers.cs
tests/SomeOtherFile.cs
```

This is super useful if you want to parallelize your test runs across multiple build agents. You simply clone your repository on each agent, then run the split command, and specify a new offset for every agent. The result is a reduced test amount that runs faster.

## Splitting by timing data
By default, the tests are split based on the file count (an even file count on each chunk). If you want to split by timing data, you can do the following:
`pruner split <total-chunks> <chunk-offset> <glob-pattern> --by timings`

This requires that you have run `pruner run` before, and committed your Pruner state file into GIT, so that Pruner has historic timing data to work with.

# Comparison with other tools
## As an alternative to NCrunch
NCrunch:
- Does not offer a free version. Pruner is free.
- Has not open-sourced their code. Pruner is fully open source.
- Only runs in Visual Studio. Pruner runs in Visual Studio Code as well, or on your build server.
- Does not remember your test state. Every time you reboot your machine, you have to re-run all tests again. Pruner persists your state to the disk, so that you can resume where you left off.

## As an alternative to WallabyJS
WallabyJS:
- Does not offer a free version (except for Open Source projects). Pruner is free.
- Does not run other languages than JavaScript. Pruner supports several languages, and can combine all your test runs across technologies and frameworks in a single command.
- Does not remember your test state. Every time you reboot your machine, you have to re-run all tests again. Pruner persists your state to the disk, so that you can resume where you left off.
- Does not run on your build server. Pruner runs on your build server, allowing you to save time running tests there as well.

## As an alternative to DotCover
DotCover:
- Does not offer a free version (except for Open Source projects). Pruner is free.
- Does not run other languages than `dotnet` (C#, VB). Pruner supports several languages, and can combine all your test runs across technologies and frameworks in a single command.
- Does not remember your test state. Every time you reboot your machine, you have to re-run all tests again. Pruner persists your state to the disk, so that you can resume where you left off.
- Does not run on your build server. Pruner runs on your build server, allowing you to save time running tests there as well.

# Contributing
To contribute, you need to have the following installed:
- .NET SDK 5 (https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- Global install of the NPM package `mocha` (`npm i mocha -g`)

Commit message:

fix for GitHub actions example.

README.md, after:

# What is this?
Pruner is a universal test CLI that does the following:

- Runs your tests as soon as the code updates.
- Only runs the tests that are needed (the tests that run through the code you changed).
- Highlights code coverage with test status next to each line (see video below), so you know if you broke something, as you write it.
- Runs on your build server as well. Avoid wasting time waiting for your build server to run tests you already ran locally.
- Allows you to split tests in several chunks, useful for running tests in parallel across machines on a build server.

# Optional: Get the Visual Studio extension
- **Visual Studio Code:** https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Pruner.vscode
- **Visual Studio:** https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Pruner.vs

[![Watch a demo-video](/assets/Pruner.gif)](https://github.com/pruner/cli/blob/main/assets/Pruner.webm?raw=true)

# Getting started
First you need to install the CLI. This requires [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) installed.

`npm i @pruner/cli -g`

## Language & framework support
Pruner supports several languages and frameworks. Pick the instructions for the language you want to use, to get started.
### `dotnet` (C# .NET, VB .NET)
Instructions: https://github.com/pruner/cli/blob/main/docs/dotnet.md

### `mocha` (JavaScript)
Instructions: https://github.com/pruner/cli/blob/main/docs/mocha.md

### Looking for more providers?
File an issue or feel free to submit a pull request!

# Running tests
When you want to run your affected tests, use:

`pruner run`

## Watch mode
There's also a watch mode available, which will automatically run affected tests as you save files in your projects:

`pruner run --watch`

# Splitting tests
The syntax for splitting tests is `pruner split <total-chunks> <chunk-offset> <glob-pattern>`.

- `<total-chunks>` is the amount of total chunks you want to split your tests in.
- `<chunk-offset>` the zero-based chunk index to keep on disk.
- `<glob-pattern>` the glob-pattern for your tests.

## Example
Let's say you have the following files in your repository:
```
tests/BarTest.cs
tests/BuzTest.cs
tests/FooTest.cs
tests/FuzTest.cs
tests/Helpers.cs
tests/SomeOtherFile.cs
```

If you then run the command `pruner split 2 0 "**/*Test.cs"`, Pruner will split your tests in `2` chunks, and only keep chunk `0` (the first chunk) on the disk:

```
tests/BarTest.cs
tests/BuzTest.cs
tests/Helpers.cs
tests/SomeOtherFile.cs
```

If you instead run the command `pruner split 2 1 "**/*Test.cs"` Pruner will split your tests in `2` chunks, but instead keep chunk `1` (the second chunk) on the disk:
```
tests/FooTest.cs
tests/FuzTest.cs
tests/Helpers.cs
tests/SomeOtherFile.cs
```

### GitHub Actions
See the build that triggers automatically on each push here: 
https://github.com/pruner/cli/blob/main/.github/workflows/split.yml

## Splitting by timing data
By default, the tests are split based on the file count (an even file count on each chunk). If you want to split by timing data, you can do the following:
`pruner split <total-chunks> <chunk-offset> <glob-pattern> --by timings`

This requires that you have run `pruner run` before, and committed your Pruner state file into GIT, so that Pruner has historic timing data to work with.

# Comparison with other tools
## As an alternative to NCrunch
NCrunch:
- Does not offer a free version. Pruner is free.
- Has not open-sourced their code. Pruner is fully open source.
- Only runs in Visual Studio. Pruner runs in Visual Studio Code as well, or on your build server.
- Does not remember your test state. Every time you reboot your machine, you have to re-run all tests again. Pruner persists your state to the disk, so that you can resume where you left off.

## As an alternative to WallabyJS
WallabyJS:
- Does not offer a free version (except for Open Source projects). Pruner is free.
- Does not run other languages than JavaScript. Pruner supports several languages, and can combine all your test runs across technologies and frameworks in a single command.
- Does not remember your test state. Every time you reboot your machine, you have to re-run all tests again. Pruner persists your state to the disk, so that you can resume where you left off.
- Does not run on your build server. Pruner runs on your build server, allowing you to save time running tests there as well.

## As an alternative to DotCover
DotCover:
- Does not offer a free version (except for Open Source projects). Pruner is free.
- Does not run other languages than `dotnet` (C#, VB). Pruner supports several languages, and can combine all your test runs across technologies and frameworks in a single command.
- Does not remember your test state. Every time you reboot your machine, you have to re-run all tests again. Pruner persists your state to the disk, so that you can resume where you left off.
- Does not run on your build server. Pruner runs on your build server, allowing you to save time running tests there as well.

# Contributing
To contribute, you need to have the following installed:
- .NET SDK 5 (https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- Global install of the NPM package `mocha` (`npm i mocha -g`)
